.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii idsaguile.8
.\"
.TH IDSAGUILE 8 "JULY 2000" "IDS/A System"
.SH NAME
idsaguile \- scheme interpreter to analyze events
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B idsaguile [-f]
.B [-i 
.I username
.B ] [-r 
.I directory
.B ] 
.I script
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B idsaguile
is intended to be started as a subprocess of 
.BR idsad (8) 
to perform more complex checks on incoming events.
On startup 
.B idsaguile 
reads the guile script given on its commandline. The
script should define a function called
.B idsa()
which accepts a single list as argument and returns a
boolean. This function will be called to determine if 
its rule in 
.BR idsad.conf (5)
should be triggered by an event.
The list as argument to
.B idsa()
will contains one element for each label value 
tuple of the event. The label value pair itself is a sublist
of 3 elements, the first is the label, the second
its type and the third its value. 
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -f
Disallow forks for this process. In case 
.B idsaguile
is subverted by an attacker, the attacker will only
be able to run a single process (provided the -i 
option is also used)
.IP -h
Print a terse help message
.IP "-i username"
Run as specified user instead of root. Group is determined from 
password file entry
.IP "-r directory"
Chroot to specified directory. Note that the 
.BR chroot (2)
system call occurs before the guile interpreter initializes. This 
means that the guile script given on the command-line and any guile 
support files need to be a copied into the chroot environment
.SH AUTHOR
Marc Welz
.SH COPYING
.B idsa
may only be distributed and modified in accordance with the terms of the
.B GPL (GNU General Public License)
as published by the
.BR "FSF (Free Software Foundation)" .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR idsad (8),
.BR guile (1).
