'\" t
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -t -man -Tascii idsa-scheme-rq.7
.\"
.TH IDSA-SCHEME-RQ 7 "APRIL 2003" "IDS/A System"
.SH NAME
IDS/A Resource Accounting Abstraction

.SH DESCRIPTION

.PP
This page lists the event field names which 
should be passed to 
.BR idsa_set (3) 
or 
.BR idsa_scan (3) 
to describe the resources held by a monitored application. Each
resource is considered to consist of a number of discrete
elements which are either allocated/consumed or available for
allocation/consumption. An application in its simplest form
would report the resources as a count, using either
.BR IDSA_RQ_REQUEST ,
.B IDSA_RQ_RELEASE 
or
.B IDSA_RQ_USED 
as well the field
.B IDSA_RQ_UNITS
to describe the entities counted.
More elaborate systems may also list totals, 
report unallocated elements and categorise
resources.

.SH FIELDS

.IP IDSA_RQ_REQUEST  
The resources which are requested by the application 
emitting the security event 

.IP IDSA_RQ_RELEASE
The resources released by the application. This
field differs from the inverse of the previous one
in that the release of resources is not
blocked

.IP IDSA_RQ_USED
The number of resource items already held by 
the monitored entity, not counting the ones
currently being requested or about to be 
released

.IP IDSA_RQ_FREE
The number of resource elements which could 
potentially still be allocated to the requesting
system

.IP IDSA_RQ_TOTAL
The overall number of resource elements

.IP IDSA_RQ_UNITS
The units in which the reported resource elements are measured.
Loads can be expressed as a number of units per time 
interval.

.IP IDSA_RQ_CLASS
The resource type held or consumed. The abstraction proposes
three major categories (which in turn could be divided further):

.RS
.IP IDSA_RQ_CTRAFFIC
Resources related to transfers or communications, such as bytes 
of network traffic or blocks of disk IO
.IP IDSA_RQ_CPROCESSOR
Resources devoted to manipulation or transformation, such 
as CPU time
.IP IDSA_RQ_CSTORAGE
Resources required for storage, such as disk blocks or bytes or RAM
.RE

.SH EXAMPLE

.RS
.nf
int size;
 ...
idsa_set(c, "multimedia-reply", "samplehttpd", 1,
    ...
    "content-type, IDSA_T_STRING, "video/mpeg",
    IDSA_RQ_REQUEST, IDSA_T_INT, &size,
    IDSA_RQ_UNITS, IDSA_T_STRING, "bytes-sent",
    IDSA_RQ_CLASS, IDSA_T_STRING, IDSA_RQ_CTRAFFIC,
    NULL);
.fi
.RE
.P

.PP
Request permission to transfer a video to 
a client of a given number of bytes.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR idsa_set (3),
.BR idsa_scan (3),
.BR idsad (8).
