.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii idsalog.1
.\"
.TH IDSALOG 1 "APRIL 2001" "IDS/A System"
.SH NAME
idsalog \- IDS/A access control, logging and IDS for shell scripts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B idsalog [-dfq] [-m
.I scheme
.B ] [ -n
.I name
.B ] [ -s
.I service
.B ] [ -ra
.I "availability risk"
.B ] [ -rc
.I "confidentiality risk"
.B ] [ -ri
.I "integrity risk"
.B ] [ 
.I "optional fields"
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B idsalog
submits an an event to 
.BR idsad (8)
returning 0 if the event is permitted and 1 if not. 
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -d
Enable debug messages
.IP -f
Set flag indicating that the reported event can and will
be blocked
.IP -q
Quiet - do not print answer to stdout
.IP "-m scheme"
Scheme field, equivalent to parameter 3 of 
.BR idsa_set (3)
.IP "-n name"
Event name, equivalent to parameter 2 of 
.BR idsa_set (3)
.IP "-s service"
Service field, equivalent to parameter 1 of 
.BR idsa_open (3)
.IP "-ra risk"
Risk to availability, expressed as a cost and confidence value
in the range [-1,1] and [0,1] respectively. Availability risks
are generally negative, as denying an event reduces availability
.IP "-rc risk"
Risk to confidentiality. Usually positive
.IP "-ri risk"
Risk to integrity. Usually positive
.IP "optional fields"
Optional fields are specified as a name type value triple. There
may be no spaces between the three members, name is separated from
type by a colon and type from value by an equal sign. The format
is the same as reported by the tulm output format. If the type
is omitted, the value is assumed to be a string.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf 
#!/bin/bash
if ! idsalog -qf -n run -m shell -s $0 -ra -0.3/0.3 -rc 0.2/0.4 term:string="$TERM" ; then
  echo "permission denied"
  exit 1
fi
# now do useful stuff 
.SH AUTHOR
Marc Welz
.SH COPYING
.B idsa
may only be distributed and modified in accordance with
the terms of the
.B GPL (GNU General Public License)
as published by the
.BR "FSF (Free Software Foundation)" .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR idsa_set (3),
.BR idsa_open (3),
.BR idsa_types (3),
.BR idsad (8).
