.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii idsaexec.8
.\"
.TH IDSAEXEC 8 "APRIL 2002" "IDS/A System"
.SH NAME
idsaexec \- spawn processes in response to events
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B idsaexec [-lns] [-i 
.I user
.B ] [-r 
.I directory
.B ] [-t 
.I timeout
.B ] 
.I command options ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B idsaexec
is a utility to be started by 
.BR idsad (8) 
as part of the output module
.BR mod_log (8)
to invoke external commands in response
to events. Note that
.B idsaexec
is started before
.BR idsad (8)
drops its privileges.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -l
Log internal errors
.IP -n
Open 
.I /dev/null
on the standard file descriptors for invoked programs
.IP -s
Only start a single child process at a time. Otherwise
start one as each new message arrives. If this option 
is not used in conjunction with
.B -t 
then
.B idsaexec 
may wait indefinitely for a child to exit
.IP "-t seconds"
Schedule an alarm signal for the child. If used with the 
.B -s
option also terminate the child
.IP "-i username"
Run as specified user instead of root. Group is determined from 
password file entry
.IP "-r directory"
Chroot to specified directory
.IP "command options ..."
Path an parameters of external command. Understands very simple field
substitutions introduced by a % at the start of a new word, useful
for dangerous reactions, eg 
.BR "kill %pid" 
.SH EXAMPLES
.RS
%true: log pipe "/usr/sbin/idsaexec -nst 5 wavplay /usr/share/aucons/alarm.wav"
.RE
.P
Play an alarm. Interrupt the child after 5 seconds. Only start a new child
after the previous one has completed.
.SH AUTHOR
Marc Welz
.SH COPYING
.B idsa
may only be distributed and modified in accordance with the terms of the
.B GPL (GNU General Public License)
as published by the
.BR "FSF (Free Software Foundation)" .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mod_log (8),
.BR idsapipe (8),
.BR idsad (8),
.BR idsa(1).
