.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii idsad.conf.5
.\"
.TH IDSAD.CONF 5 "JULY 2000" "IDS/A System"
.SH NAME
idsad.conf \- idsa configuration file

.SH DESCRIPTION

.PP
An 
.BR idsad (8)
configuration file consists of one or more
.B rules. 
consist of a
.B head 
and a 
.B body 
separated by a 
.BR colon .
.B Rules
are matched sequentially against events. Evaluation 
stops at the first successful match unless the 
.B continue
keyword is part of the rule 
.BR body .
A rule
.B head 
contains the criteria against which an event should
be matched, while the rule 
.B body 
contains a list of
.B actions 
which should be taken if the rule 
.B head
matches the event. 
.B Actions 
are separated (not terminated) by a
.BR semi-colon .

.SH GRAMMAR

.IP "RULES ::="
RULE
.I [ 
RULES 
.I ]

.IP "RULE ::="
HEAD 
.B :
BODY

.IP "HEAD ::="
EXPRESSION
.I [ 
.B |
HEAD 
.I ]

.IP "EXPRESSION ::="
TEST
.I [ 
.B &
EXPRESSION 
.I ]

.IP "TEST ::="
.B (
HEAD 
.B ) 
.br
.B !
TEST
.br
FIELD 
.I [
.B :
TYPE 
.I ] 
VALUE
.br
.B %
TEST_MODULE

.IP "BODY ::="
ACTION
.I [
.B ;
BODY 
.I ]

.IP "ACTION ::="
.B allow
.br
.B deny
.br
.B drop
.br
.B continue
.br
.I [ 
.B %
.I ] 
ACTION_MODULE
.sp

.PP Square parenthesis denote optional tokens.

.SH TESTS 

.PP
Tests performed in the rule 
.B head 
occur in two forms, a simple builtin test where
a single event field is matched against a value, and 
arbitrary test modules including
.BR mod_counter (8),
.BR mod_interactive (8),
.BR mod_keep (8),
.BR mod_regex (8),
.BR mod_time (8),
.BR mod_timer (8)
and
.BR mod_true (8).

.SH ACTIONS

.PP
A list of actions is performed in the rule 
.BR body .
The following builtin actions are available:

.TP
.B deny
Disallow this event if the application will honour
such requests. Where multiple rules match an event,
or where 
.B deny
and 
.B allow
are given in the same rule
.B deny
wins.

.TP
.B allow 
Permit this event to occur if the application will
honour such requests. The absence of a 
.B deny
action implies
.BR allow .

.TP
.B drop
Terminates the connection to the client submitting
an event.

.TP
.B continue
Do not terminate rule evaluation if this rule matches.

.PP
The following modules provide additional actions:
.BR mod_log (8),
.BR mod_counter (8),
.BR mod_keep (8),
and
.BR mod_timer (8).

.SH EXAMPLES

.PP
Assume the following event has been sent to 
.BR idsad (8):
.P
.RS
?pid:pid="1981" uid:uid="0" gid:gid="0" time:time="1006951869" service:string="in.telnetd"
 host:host="knoll" name:string="connect" scheme:string="tcpd" honour:flag="1" arisk:risk="1.000/0.990" crisk:risk="0.000/0.000" irisk:risk="0.000/0.000" ip4src:addr="192.168.0.2" portsrc:port="6/8268" ip4dst:addr="192.168.0.1" portdst:port="6/23"
.RE
.P

.PP
And a configuration containing the following three rules:
.P
.RS
%true: log file /var/log/everything ; continue
.sp
%regex service "pop.*d" : log file /var/log/pop
.sp
service:string "in.telnetd" & (! ip4src:addr 127.0.0.1) : deny ; log file /var/log/telnet
.RE

.PP
The event is tested against each rule, starting
at the first until a test matches.
The first rule contains a test which always matches, thus
the event is logged to 
.IR /var/log/everything .
Normally this would stop evaluation, however as the
rule body contains the 
.B continue 
keyword, evaluation moves to the next rule. 
This rule does not trigger, so the event
it is not logged to 
.I /var/log/pop
and evaluation continues to the last rule.  This rule matches the
event, so the event is denied and also logged to
.IR /var/log/telnet .

.SH "DEFAULT DENY"

The rule processor defaults to allowing an event if no
rule matches. This is easy to change by appending the 
following rule: 

.RS
%true: log file /var/log/default-deny ; deny
.RE

However, each client connection 
to 
.BR idsad (8)
generates a connect event. If this event is blocked,
very little else will work. So this rule should 
only occur after a rule such as the one given below:

.RS
service:string idsad : log file /var/log/internal 
.RE

.SH TESTING

To debug a set of rules it is useful to prepend
the following rule:

.RS
%true: log file /var/log/everything, 
    format internal, rotate 10000; continue
.RE

It will report all events in the same format 
which is used by applications to transmit them. 
This format includes typing detail. 
.B idsalog
can be used to generate arbitrary events.

.SH QUOTING

To quote a string enclose it in double quotation marks. In a 
quoted string a control character is escaped using a caret. For example,
a newline is represented as
.BR ^J ,
not
.B \en
although an option exists to use the
sequence 
.BR \e0A .
Backslash, double quote and caret are escaped with
a backslash. Escape sequences are only interpreted inside
quoted strings.

.SH FILES

.I /etc/idsad.conf
.RS
Default location of the 
.BR idsad (8)
configuration file.

.SH AUTHOR

Marc Welz

.SH BUGS

Tokenizer requires more quoting than strictly needed.

.SH COPYING

.B idsa 
is released under the terms of the
.B GPL (GNU General Public License)
as published by the
.BR "FSF (Free Software Foundation)" .

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR idsad (8),
.BR idsa (1).
