'\" t
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -t -man -Tascii idsa-scheme-am.7
.\"
.TH IDSA-SCHEME-AM 7 "APRIL 2003" "IDS/A System"
.SH NAME
IDS/A Access Control Abstraction

.SH DESCRIPTION

.PP
This page lists the event field names which 
should be passed to 
.BR idsa_set (3) 
or 
.BR idsa_scan (3) 
to describe security events in terms of
an access control model. The primary
fields are 
.BR IDSA_AM_SUBJECT ,
.BR IDSA_AM_OBJECT ,
and
.BR IDSA_AM_ACTION , 
with several types of access actions or 
modes defined. Additional fields are
used to report compartments, levels 
and roles.

.SH FIELDS

.IP IDSA_AM_SUBJECT
Active entity which attempts the action

.IP IDSA_AM_OBJECT
Passive entity on which the action is performed

.IP IDSA_AM_ACTION
Type of action performed. The following string values
are defined:

.RS
.IP IDSA_AM_AREAD
Transfer information to the subject
.IP IDSA_AM_AWRITE
Transfer information from the subject
.IP IDSA_AM_ACREATE
Generate object
.IP IDSA_AM_ADESTROY
Render object inaccessible
.IP IDSA_AM_AFLOW
Untrusted transfer: Subject gains sufficient control of object so 
that subsequent actions performed by object could have been performed 
at the request of this subject. Used to measure insecurity flow.  
Appropriate for invoking nonsetuid executables, changing uid, 
remote logins, etc
.IP IDSA_AM_AREQUEST
Trusted transfer: Subject requests a trusted object to 
perform an action. Appropriate for execution of setuid 
executables, protocol commands
.IP IDSA_AM_AOTHER
Fallback if none of the above are appropriate
.RE

.IP IDSA_AM_CLEARANCE
Security level of subject

.IP IDSA_AM_CLASSIFICATION
Security level of object 

.IP IDSA_AM_DOMAIN
Compartment of subject

.IP IDSA_AM_TYPE
Compartment of object

.IP IDSA_AM_ROLE
Role assumed by subject

.SH EXAMPLE

.RS
.nf
struct sockaddr_in sa;
char *url;
 ...
idsa_set(c, "reply", "samplehttpd", 1,
    IDSA_R_UNKNOWN, IDSA_R_PARTIAL, IDSA_R_MINOR,
    IDSA_AM_SUBJECT, IDSA_T_SADDR, &sa,
    IDSA_AM_OBJECT,  IDSA_T_STRING, url,
    IDSA_AM_ACTION,  IDSA_T_STRING, IDSA_AM_READ,
    ...
    NULL);
.fi
.RE
.P

.PP
Request permission to allow a client access retrieve an url.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR idsa_set (3),
.BR idsa_scan (3),
.BR idsad (8).
