.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii idsa_open.3
.\"
.TH IDSA_OPEN 3 "JULY 2001" "IDS/A System"
.SH NAME
idsa_open \- create an idsa handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <idsa.h>
.sp
.BI "IDSA_CONNECTION *idsa_open(char *" name ", char *" credential ", int " flags ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B idsa_open
allocates a handle which is used in subsequent calls to 
.BR idsa_set , 
.B idsa_scan
and others. 
.I name 
is the name used to identify the client application, 
.I credential
a token used for authentication (currently unused, should be 
.BR NULL ).
.I flags
can be used to set zero or more of the following options, bitwise or'd:
.TP
.B IDSA_F_FAILOPEN
Change the behaviour of 
.BR idsa_log ,
.B idsa_set
and 
.B idsa_scan
to return 
.B IDSA_L_ALLOW
instead of 
.B IDSA_L_DENY 
in case of failures internal to idsa.
.TP
.B IDSA_F_ENV
allow a user to override the location of the 
.B idsa
socket using 
.BR IDSA_SOCKET .
The use of this is inadvisable for setuid programs.
.TP
.B IDSA_F_SIGPIPE
Do not trap 
.BR SIG_PIPE .
This only applies to older platforms, newer ones do 
require that that any signals be trapped.
.TP 
.B IDSA_F_UPLOAD
Enable the uploading of rules (and thus shared objects) into
the process space. The use of this option is inadvisable for
applications which are more trusted than 
.BR idsad (8).
.TP
.B IDSA_F_NOBACKOFF
Disable the linear backoff strategy in case of a failure of
.BR idsad (8).
.TP
.B IDSA_F_TIMEOUT
Set a timeout for I/O to 
.BR idsad (8).
Using this flag in conjunction with 
.B IDSA_F_UPLOAD 
is not advised.
.TP
.B IDSA_F_KEEP
Disable automatic deallocation of events inside 
.BR idsa_log .
.PP
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
A pointer to an 
.B IDSA_CONNECTION 
structure on success, 
.B NULL
otherwise.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/idsad.conf
.RS
Default 
.BR idsad (8)
configuration file.
.RE
.I /var/run/idsa
.RS
Default listen socket.
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Marc Welz
.SH COPYING
.B idsa
may only be distributed and modified in accordance with
the terms of the
.B GPL (GNU General Public License)
as published by the
.BR "FSF (Free Software Foundation)" .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR idsa_close (3).
