.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii idsad.8
.\"
.TH IDSAD 8 "JULY 2000" "IDS/A System"
.SH NAME
idsad \- master daemon of the idsa system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B idsad [-hknuv]
.B [-f
.I file
.B ] [-i 
.I username
.B ] [-M
.I integer
.B ] [-p
.I socket ...
.B ] [-r 
.I directory
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B idsad
accepts connections from one or more unix domain sockets.
Security events are read from established connections, processed
according to a rule set defined in 
.BR idsad.conf (5)
and the replies returned.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-f file"
Read configuration from 
.I file
instead of default
.I /etc/idsad.conf
.IP -h
Print a terse help message
.IP "-i username"
Run as specified user instead of root. Group is determined from 
password file entry
.IP -k
Kill and replace an already running 
.B idsad
instance. Note that this replacement is atomic, at no point in time
will the listening sockets be unbound. This option should be used to reconfigure
.B idsad 
in place of sending it a
.BR SIGHUP .
Reconfiguring or restarting
.B idsad
via a signal is not feasible as the running
.B idsad 
instance has no way of recovering the privileges it relinquished on
entering chrooted environment and changing its user identifier
.IP "-M integer"
Preallocate memory resources to support the given number of clients.
In this configuration
.B idsad 
will allocate 
.B no
memory after initialization --- this should
prevent memory exhaustion failures. Using a value
exceeding the number of available file descriptors 
is inadvisable, as this will disable the mechanism
which enforces connection quotas on nonroot users
.IP -n
Do not fork into background
.IP "-p socket ..."
Listen on one or more unix domain sockets. Multiple sockets
should be separated by unquoted whitespaces. If this option is omitted, 
.B idsad
will default to listening on
.I /var/run/idsa
.IP "-r directory"
Chroot to 
.I directory
after initialisation
.IP -u
Honour umask when creating sockets. Allows the system
administrator to restrict access to the socket to a given
group or user. Note that few systems other than Linux 
honour permission bits for unix domain sockets
.IP -v 
Print version number
.SH FILES
.I /etc/idsad.conf
.RS
Default 
.B idsad
configuration file.
.RE
.I /var/run/idsa
.RS
Default listen socket.
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Marc Welz
.SH COPYING
.B idsa
may only be distributed and modified in accordance with
the terms of the
.B GPL (GNU General Public License)
as published by the
.BR FSF "(Free Software Foundation)" .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR idsad.conf (5),
.BR syslogd (8).
