.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii mod_log.8
.\"
.TH MOD_LOG 8 "APRIL 2002" "IDS/A System"
.SH NAME
log \- IDS/A output module
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B log 
.I type destination 
.B [, rotate 
.I count
.B ] [, sync] [, format 
.I string
.B ] [, custom
.I string
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B log
is used to write output files. 
.I type 
is either the string 
.B file 
or 
.BR pipe . 
If output to a file is selected, then
destination is the absolute path to a file, 
else it is a command. If command options are
used then the entire command string has to be quoted.
Usually 
.BR idsaexec (8)
or
.BR idsapipe (8)
should be used to wrap external commands, as
these run outside the chrooted environment.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "rotate count"
Enables log file rotation. Two output files
are created with the suffix -1 and -2. If 
one file exceeds count then the other file
is truncated and used as target. As 
.BR idsad (8)
should be run in a chroot environment, 
log files have to be opened in advance
and file descriptors have to be limited.
Hence only two files. This option does 
not apply to pipes.
.IP sync
Make output synchronous by opening files
with the 
.B O_SYNC
flag.
.IP "format string"
Use a different output format. Available 
ones include
.BR syslog ,
.BR ulm , 
.BR tulm ,
.BR native , 
.BR internal ,
.B csv 
and 
.BR xml .
.IP "custom string"
Use a custom string, field names a specified
as
.BR %{name} .
.SH EXAMPLES
.RS
%true: 
  log file /var/log/everything, sync, rotate 25000, format syslog
.RE
.P 
Logs to files 
.I /var/log/everything-1
and 
.IR /var/log/everything-2 ,
writes are synchronous and rotates
happen once a file exceeds 25000 bytes.
The format resembles the conventional 
system logger.
.P
.RS
%true: 
  log pipe "/usr/local/sbin/idsapipe -i nobody -T 4 /usr/bin/smbclient -M windows_box"
.RE
.P 
Pipe messages to the utility 
.BR idsapipe (8)
which in turn invokes 
.BR smbclient (1). 
Note that the
.B format 
or 
.B custom 
option are not appropriate when using
.BR idsapipe (8) 
or 
.BR idsaexec (8).
.SH AUTHOR
Marc Welz
.SH COPYING
.B idsa
may only be distributed and modified in accordance with the terms of the
.B GPL (GNU General Public License)
as published by the
.BR "FSF (Free Software Foundation)" .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR idsad.conf (5),
.BR idsad (8).
