.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii mod_keep.8
.\"
.TH MOD_KEEP 8 "APRIL 2002" "IDS/A System"
.SH NAME
keep \- IDS/A module to remember values
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B [%] keep 
.I field 
.B [ : 
.I type 
.B ] 
.I name 
.B [, size
.I number
.B ] [, timeout 
.I seconds
.B ] [, file
.I path 
.B ]
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B keep
is used to construct sets of values.
When 
.B %keep 
is used in a rule head it returns
true if an event field value is part of the set. If
.B keep 
is used in a rule body it adds the field value to 
the set.
.I field
is name of an event field, such as 
.B pid 
or 
.BR scheme ,
while
.I type
is the type of the field - this is necessary
if the field is not one of the required
fields. See 
.BR idsa_types (3)
for a list of types.
.I name 
is the set identifier.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "size number"
The number of elements in the set. Replacement
is on a FIFO basis.
.IP "timeout seconds"
The number of seconds for an element to remain 
in the set.
.IP "file path"
The file in which to save the set between
restarts of 
.BR idsad (8).
.SH EXAMPLE
.RS
scheme syslog & %keep message:string duplicates, size 128, file /var/state/idsa/duplicates: 
  keep message:string duplicates
.sp
scheme syslog: 
  log file /var/log/idsa/syslog-no-dups, format syslog ; 
  keep message:string duplicates
.RE
.P 
Filters out duplicate entries before writing them to 
.I /var/log/idsa/syslog-no-dups. 
In the first rule the value of the
.I message 
field of incoming events is compared to those saved in the set 
.IR duplicates .
If it matches it is added again to the head of the FIFO 
but not written to log file.
The second rule logs events which did not match the first rule
in syslog format and also adds them to the set
.I duplicates
to trap later repeats. Between restarts the contents of the 
.I duplicates
set is saved to the file
.IR /var/state/idsa/duplicates .
.SH AUTHOR
Marc Welz
.SH COPYING
.B idsa
may only be distributed and modified in accordance with the terms of the
.B GPL (GNU General Public License)
as published by the
.BR "FSF (Free Software Foundation)" .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR idsad.conf (5),
.BR mod_log (8),
.BR idsad (8).
