.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii mod_counter.8
.\"
.TH MOD_COUNTER 8 "APRIL 2002" "IDS/A System"
.SH NAME
%counter \- IDS/A module to set and test counters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B %counter 
.I name 
.BI [ value ]
.sp
.B counter 
.I name operation 
.BI [ value ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The module
.B counter
is used in both rule heads and bodies. In a 
rule head it is used to see if a named counter
exceeds (is greater) than a certain integer. 
In a rule body the counter can be incremented,
decremented or set. 
.I name
is an alphanumeric string, 
.I value
an integer.
.I operation
is either
.BR increment , 
.B decrement
or
.BR set .
If the value is omitted 
in a rule head, the rule matches if the 
counter is greater than zero. If the 
value is omitted in a rule body, single 
increments and decrements are made or
the counter is set to zero. A zero
counter can not be decremented further.
.SH EXAMPLE
.RS
scheme syslog & %regex message "breakin attempt" : 
  counter breakin increment 5 ; continue 
.sp
scheme syslog & %counter breakin : 
  log pipe "/usr/local/sbin/idsapipe -c 1 /usr/bin/wall" ;
  counter breakin decrement
.RE
.P 
Write syslog messages containing the string 
.I "breakin attempt"
and the following four messages to all users. Note
that 
.BR wall (1)
is set to write one event at a time.
.SH AUTHOR
Marc Welz
.SH COPYING
.B idsa
may only be distributed and modified in accordance with the terms of the
.B GPL (GNU General Public License)
as published by the
.BR "FSF (Free Software Foundation)" .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR idsad.conf (5),
.BR mod_regex (8),
.BR mod_log (8),
.BR idsad (8).
