.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii mod_constrain.8
.\"
.TH MOD_CONSTRAIN 8 "JANUARY 2003" "IDS/A System"
.SH NAME
%constrain \- IDS/A anomaly detection module to trigger on strings 
abnormally long or containing unusual characters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B %constrain 
.I label 
.B "[:"
.I type
.B ]
.I "name violations"
.B "[, file"
.I path
.B ]
.sp
.B constrain 
.I label 
.B "[:"
.I type
.B ]
.I "name violations"
.B "[, update] [, file"
.I path
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The module
.B constrain
can be used in both rule heads and bodies. 
.P 
In a rule head it is used to test if a field value identified by
.I label 
.B "[:"
.I type
.B ]
contains characters in a position further to the
right than previously seen before. If these 
exceed the threshold given by 
.I violations
then the rule triggers. 
.P
If used in a rule body, the module updates the constrain
instance 
.I name
so that it no longer triggers on the current field.
In the rule body a value of 
.I violations 
greater than zero increases the update margin.
The optional parameter 
.B file
.I path 
saves the instance state to file. By default this save
is only performed when the system is shut down. This can
be changed using the 
.B update 
keyword which forces an immediate save.
.SH EXAMPLE
.P
Consider the below rule list and a sequence of four events each containing the field labelled 
.B username
with the respective values
.BR eenie ,
.BR meenie , 
.BR mo 
and
.BR catcha :
.RS
.sp
%exists username & %interactive /root/add-names 4.0 failclosed :
  constrain username:string known-names 0, update, log /var/state/idsa/known-names
.sp
%exists username & %constrain username:string known-names 4 :
  deny;
  log file /var/log/idsa/odd-names
.RE
.P 
Assume that the first event with 
.B username:string="eenie" 
is approved interactively. The second event 
contains an 
.B m
at position 1 not seen before and the letters
.BR n , 
.B  i 
and
.B e
each at one position further right than before, yielding a total
of 4. This does not exceed the violation 
count, so the second rule does not fire. 
The same holds for event three with
.B username:string="mo"
as its difference amounts to 3.
However, 
.B username:string="catcha"
triggers the rule as it exceeds the limit of 4, 
given that its last letter 
.B a
alone contributes a difference of 6.
.SH AUTHOR
Marc Welz
.SH COPYING
.B idsa
may only be distributed and modified in accordance with the terms of the
.B GPL (GNU General Public License)
as published by the
.BR "FSF (Free Software Foundation)" .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR idsad.conf (5),
.BR mod_timer (8),
.BR mod_interactive (8),
.BR mod_log (8),
.BR idsad (8).
